README.md, before:

# BaseFPUnityProject

## Intro
Over the past couple of years whenever I have started a new Unity project I find my self spending a few hours to a few days recreating a first person character just so that I could finally start testing any ideas that I might of originally wanted. This lead me to creating this Repo where I have a basic first person character based on 'Catslike coding" tutorial ([Link](https://catlikecoding.com/unity/tutorials/)) and adding some extra things that I normally like to have in my character. At the same time many of the turorials are made for the old movement system which isent as friendly for adding and having diffrent controllers working which is why I also implimented the new input system and Im planning over time implementing more controller support.

## 3D
I mostly plan on mostly working on this 3D character since I mostly like working on 3D projects in Unity but also plan on adding a 2D character in case I or someone else wishes to use that.

## Current features
- Movement (Transform position)
- Camera looking around
- Jumping
- Health
- Healing over time
- Crouching
- Camera/head bobbing while walking
- Melee combat

## Features Im working on
- Combat
- Firearm (Shooting) combat
- UI (Mostly to show that the other features are working)

## Features I plan to impliment
- Picking up items
- Inventory (Both quick by changing through mouse wheel and backpack style of inventory)

## Features future implimentation
### Depending on how the other implimentation is added the bottem section might be added.
- Wall running
- Throwables
- Grapple gun
- Blocking melee attacks

## Things I am currently not planning on implementing
- Animation. There will be Debug.Log() that can show current values and some basic UI to demonstrate when certain things are active.
- Sound. This might be to much since it can be very diffrent depending on the game each person is planning on making and it would be very hard to make enough audio clips for each situation that a person can find themselves in. Especially for the scope of this project.

## 2D
After working and finishing the 3D character I plan on working on a 2D character version. It will have basicly many of the same scripts from the 3D character besids the looking around and the movement. This means that I can relativly easily reuse many of those duplicated scripts from the 3D character.

## Current features
- Health
- Healing over time
- Crouching

## Features Im working on


## Features I plan to impliment
- Movement (Transform position)
- Jumping
- Picking up items
- Melee combat
- Firearm (Shooting) combat
- Inventory (Both quick by changing through mouse wheel and backpack style of inventory)
- UI (Mostly to show that the other features are working)

## Features future implimentation
### Depending on how the other implimentation is added the bottem section might be added.
- Throwables
- Grapple gun
- Blocking melee attacks

Commit message:

More work on base gun script
Transitioned the code for shooting so that its based on coroutines instead of if statements in the update code. Need to do some testing but need to head out for a while.

README.md, after:

# BaseFPUnityProject

## Intro
Over the past couple of years whenever I have started a new Unity project I find my self spending a few hours to a few days recreating a first person character just so that I could finally start testing any ideas that I might of originally wanted. This lead me to creating this Repo where I have a basic first person character based on 'Catslike coding" tutorial ([Link](https://catlikecoding.com/unity/tutorials/)) and adding some extra things that I normally like to have in my character. At the same time many of the turorials are made for the old movement system which isent as friendly for adding and having diffrent controllers working which is why I also implimented the new input system and Im planning over time implementing more controller support.

## 3D
I mostly plan on mostly working on this 3D character since I mostly like working on 3D projects in Unity but also plan on adding a 2D character in case I or someone else wishes to use that.

## Current features
- Movement (Transform position)
- Camera looking around
- Jumping
- Health
- Healing over time
- Crouching
- Camera/head bobbing while walking
- Melee combat

## Features Im working on
- Combat
- Firearm (Shooting) combat
- UI (Mostly to show that the other features are working)

## Features I plan to impliment
- Picking up items
- Inventory (Both quick by changing through mouse wheel and backpack style of inventory)

## Features future implimentation
### If more people start using this package then I might add the following features
- Wall running
- Throwables
- Grapple gun
- Blocking melee attacks

## Things I am currently not planning on implementing
- Animation. Since animations are very dependent on the models being used I want it to still be open for each project and the models they use.
- Sound. This might be to much since it can be very diffrent depending on the game each person is planning on making and it would be very hard to make enough audio clips for each situation that a person can find themselves in. Especially for the scope of this project.

## 2D
After working and finishing the 3D character I plan on working on a 2D character version. It will have basicly many of the same scripts from the 3D character besids the looking around and the movement. This means that I can relativly easily reuse many of those duplicated scripts from the 3D character.

## Current features
- Health
- Healing over time

## Features Im working on


## Features I plan to impliment
- Movement (Transform position)
- Jumping
- Crouching
- Picking up items
- Melee combat
- Firearm (Shooting) combat
- Inventory (Both quick by changing through mouse wheel and backpack style of inventory)
- UI (Mostly to show that the other features are working)

## Features future implimentation
### If more people start using this package then I might add the following features
- Throwables
- Grapple gun
- Blocking melee attacks
