# First person character for unity

## Intro
This project was initially made so that I could have a standardized first person character (First person 3D and 2D) that I believe would have better controls then the current FPS controller that Unity has. I also planned on having extra components (Like a health system) that I could easily reuse in future games as a way to take care of the more repeatable tasks that occur when I want to test a new idea out for a game. But I then started a branch of the repo and started to work on an AI state machine in part because for a while I've been wanting to learn how to make my own AI systems for games as well as I had recently started a class at my university that allowed me to work on said AI system. This meant that over time I spent more time designing and working on the AI system I ended up working less on the FPC and I've decided to just fully switch the project to be a demonstration of my skills in designing and making AI NPC systems for games.

##Current AI enemy NPCS
The current enemy AI is a Finite State Machine (FSM) with 6 different states defined; Aggression, Attack, Cover, Idle, Patrol, Search. Currently the AI will start the game in the patrol state and will choose a set of patrol points from their list of available points and then proceed to walk in between them. As they patrol if the player is ever in visual range, another close enemy detects the player, or if the player shoots a weapon in audio range of the enemy then they will transition to the aggression state. In this state the AI NPC will tell the AI director to alert all nearby enemies that aren't already aware of the player that the player is in fact nearby and to transition them to Aggression state, after this the AI NPC will calculated based on their trait, the distance to the player in relation to their weapons range and all of the close by cover points to return a value that will be given to the AI director alongside all other AI NPC that have recently calculated their decision value. Then every few seconds the AI Director will rank the value from the AI NPCs that are currently waiting to be assigned, at this point the AI Director will decide which of the AI NPCs will be allowed to change to the attack state while the other ones will go to the cover state weighted towards a higher decision value meaning a higher chance of going to the attack state. 

Once in the Attack state the AI NPC will calculate how close they need to approve the player to be in range of them and approach if necessary and when in range will shoot at the player. Meanwhile if the Cover state is chosen then it will choose the closest unoccupied cover point and run to cover and crouch once it has arrived. At which point it will randomly decide if it should shoot the player, stay covered or move to a new cover point allowing the AI NPC to seem like it is trying to decide whether it believes it is safe enough behind the cover to attack or if it needs to change. If line of sight is ever lost on the player then the AI will proceed to the Search state allowing it to attempt to search for the player or after a certain amount of time just return to patrolling the area when it assumes the player isn't nearby any more.
